This repository contains programs to accompany a C++ and ROOT primer.

1. eps.cpp
This C++ file uses an algorithm to determine the machine precision (epsilon) of certain data-types. I compiled it with "g++ -o eps eps.cpp", and it runs with "./eps"; additionally, it converts the speed of light from meters per second to feet per millisecond, showing the different answers and the limits of the data-types.

2. hist.cpp
This file is a ROOT macro that makes a histogram and fills it with random samples from a gaussian curve. It runs without compilation: "root hist.cpp".

3. mandel.cpp
This C++ file uses the standard termination algorithm to catalogue the number of iterations each point in a plane experiences under the z^2+c relation used to generate the Mandelbrot set. It also creates a .ppm file with colors drawn from the number of iterations for each pixel. It also stores (x, y, n_iterations) in a .dat file for use with file (4). I compile it with "g++ -o mand mandel.cpp", which runs with "./mand".

4. mandelroot.cpp
This ROOT macro reads the .dat file generated by file (3) and makes a TTree, draws various histograms from the TTree, performs example histogram operations, and fits the distribution of number of iterations with a power law.

5. cpp_overview_clipped.pptx
This MSPowerPoint presentation runs through all these files and provides commentary. It has been shortened from the original presentation to remove animations and transitions; it also incorporates the Mandelbrot data-flow example.